well howdy there internet people let's
bow again so today we're going to start
off talking about guy named Dan Glenn if
you are the alumni of a certain
Institute of higher education well you
probably already know this story but
most people don't
Glenn was a Navy pilot he was shot down
in 1966 over Vietnam he was captured by
the Vietnamese and was on prison camps
until 1973 six years he was at the Hanoi
Hilton
he's been the roommate 18 if you're not
familiar with these institutions picture
the worst thing you can imagine it's
worse than that these were very very
rough places you know what he did when
he was there he built a cabin not
physically he built in his mind if he
could find some paper and use ashes and
rice water to sketch it out he'd destroy
it immediately because that's the type
of thing that could get you tortured
he'd help other prisoners design cabins
of their own picture it every day brick
by brick plank by plank figuring out
where it was gonna go the big open floor
plan the loft upstairs when he got back
to the United States he built it
Oklahoma it's in Oklahoma up in the
woods
this story has saved lives has certainly
preserved people's sanity I'm hoping
that it can say more the stories taught
at sere you go to the physical
installation they get it go to the
actual school you'll hear this seer is a
survival evasion resistance and escape
it's the school that the US military
sends it's tough guys two guys that have
a high probability of being captured if
you go to this school you are a
certified tough guy all right now the
reason I'm starting off with this is
because our views of masculinity in this
country may lead some people to dismiss
what I'm about to say but understand the
toughest people in the US military are
taught coping skills at one of the
toughest schools in the military it's
what can keep them alive
now what he did building that house in
his mind that is an emotion based coping
skill imagination flights of fantasy
another version there another way that
falls into the emotion based is venting
or blaming not old coping skills are
good
there's also problem-based and that's
where you work harder you learn from
your mistakes
you ask for help that type of thing
there's as many different coping
mechanisms as there are people some are
good some are bad there are a lot of
coping strategies and they name mainly
revolve around maintaining a positive
outlook in some way preventing yourself
from overreacting to situations you know
taking a hard look at what just happened
at this event is it really that bad is
it really that horrible and to look at
it objectively are you in the Hanoi
Hilton probably not talking about the
problems accepting yourself your
failures accepting others accepting the
way the world is and that it isn't
always fair having a positive social
support network positive being the key
word there if you're dealing with grief
and you start shooting up around your
friends who are also doing the same
thing that's probably not a positive
social support network positive is a big
part of that learning from your mistakes
so you don't repeat them and
understanding that they happen accepting
that recognizing your successes taking a
moment saying yeah I did that helps you
build some confidence gives you a win
every once in a while
learning a little bit and developing
some self-control self-discipline
these are all good coping strategies and
then maintenance maintaining yourself
you know and what I do we look at the
most horrible things imaginable every
day it's our job and you know one of my
colleagues she does yoga constantly
maintenance some people meditate some
people have a weekly poker game
some people make videos for the internet
there's a way to vent the reason I'm
saying all of this is because there is
now that confirmed pattern early
childhood trauma and then a lack of
coping skills and then somewhere there's
that incident it's not normally a big
thing you'll lose your job girl rejects
you and that's the catalyst because you
can't cope with it you don't have these
strategies so you go down that road
everything takes over that overreaction
comes and then people die
that's the pattern of these mass
shooters now everybody saying well we
need solutions this is the solution this
is the solution yeah it's not sexy it's
nowhere near as cool was calling for
legislation but this is the solution all
the other stuff it's addressing the
means it's addressing the means well we
can limit their access to this this this
there's always gonna be a way around it
completely eliminate eliminate guns find
bombs there's always gonna be something
else this eliminates the motive if there
is no motive it doesn't matter the means
can be anywhere because there's no
desire this is the solution it's not a
talking point because you can't make
money off of it information is out there
freely google it please everybody today
learn a little bit about it good ideas
normally don't require force they're
required just education just a fault
anyway y'all have a good day